--- 
layout: post
title: recordingTechnology.
created: 1236215580
permalink: /2009/03/recording-technology
---
Now, this part won't be any news to anyone, but will mainly serve to help organize the thoughts in my brain.  First, the old way:

The old way involved the "record industry".  The record industry used to exist because recording was very expensive.  It was expensive to record a song, it was expensive to reproduce the recording of the song, and it was really expensive to warehouse, distribute, and sell the recording of that song.  Thus a whole industry cropped up to take advantage of the fact that the barrier to entry for your average recording artist, say Ma Carter out of the hills around Bristol VA, was so astronomically high that nobody really thought about releasing their own music.  Show up, play my tunes, get paid for them?  Okay!  This worked great for long enough for the basic oligarchic framework of the major label system to rise to power.

A moment now to reflect.  It's extremely popular to bash record labels, and with good reason.  Let us now take a moment, however, to reflect on the cultural purpose that they've served...

I take it for granted that America is, on balance, the coolest nation on the face of the earth, in the history of humanity.  Citizens from other countries would doubtless dispute this claim, but I would submit to you that even those societies that profess to hate everything America stands for only  hate so strongly because they don't enjoy the liberties and luxuries that Americans have long grown accustomed to.  Now, imagine if the record business never existed, that there was no such thing as an LP or a CD, and the only way to enjoy music was to go listen to it live.  There were no Beatles, except for those of you lucky enough to be in the Cavern Club, no Elvis, unless you went down to the BBQ shack to see him in Memphis, no Chuck Berry, no Led Zeppelin, no Pink Floyd, no Eagles, no Neil Young, no Bob Dylan, no Coldplay, no U2.  I know, a lot of these bands are from the UK, but I consider the give and take of the UK and the USA to be part of the competitive exchange that has pushed the limits of musical creativity for the better.  And we can safely lump all these bands into the category of Western Music.  Now, imagine if Western Music never existed.  How would we export our culture abroad?  At gunpoint, probably.  How would generations of kids be incited to stand up and make change happen?  At gunpoint, probably.  My point is that exactly at the moment in human events that the USA and the UK became 2 of the dominant political powers in the world (1946 or so), rock and roll made an appearance.  It moved legions of Japanese kids just like it did American kids.  The cultural service that the major label system provided these kids and us to come later is therefore immeasurable.  And the world danced together...

Now, back to the point, to be covered in another blog, because really long blogs are fucking boring...
