---
layout: page
title: About Me
permalink: /about-me
---
So, hi.  Thanks for caring.  My name is John, or Johnny, or Grubb, depending on which section of my circuitous life path we've met.  It was Johnny until I joined Railroad Earth, at which point it became Grubb on account of there already being a Johnny in the band.  Grubb is apparently more fun to chant, anyway.

Anyway.

I've been a musician my whole life.  I consider myself pretty lucky to have been as successful as I was at "the whole music thing".  The problem, as you may have heard, is that it's really, really hard to make a living in the music business, <em>especially</em> as a performer.  It wasn't until I was quitting RRE that I read <a href="http://www.dannybarnes.com/blog/how-make-living-playing-music">this Danny Barnes post</a> and figured out that right off the bat why I wasn't cut out for the music business.  I'm just too materialistic -- I want to own a house, feed my kids the best food I can, maybe take them on a vacation someday, and actually raise them instead of being on the road 340 days a year to accomplish the other points from a monetary standpoint.

So, I took up programming after having an epiphany.  

This blog has thus far chronicled the journey from professional upright bassist to professional web developer.  I had intended to build something grand and glorious here for the benefit of my fellow musicians.  The idea was like fruit in a tree that I couldn't reach for lack of resources - neither the programming skill nor the money to hire programming skill.  As I've been working furiously on my own programming skills, that fruit has kinda withered for me.  So, what I've decided to do now is to sit, wait, sharpen my axe, and wait for the next idea to come along.  And if I never have one, someone else will pay me to build theirs.

This shall be Act 4.  It's been in pre-production all year, and I think it's almost ready.

Act 5 shall be a merging of the two - music and programming.  I can barely see it from here, because it's the highest, juiciest fruit on the whole tree.  It's going to require a few years of hard programmatic woodshedding to get there.  I think you're going to like it, too.  

In the meantime, I'd like to be a resource for anyone who is curious about this stuff, so <a href="/contact">ask questions</a>.  I have a pretty firm belief that music and computers are like peas and carrots, and that the musician of the future will do well to be grounded in both.  There are programming languages out there that make SO much sense (ahem, Ruby) if you put in a little bit of effort that there's really no excuse for not having a little bit of it in your toolkit.  At the very least it can grease the wheels of your artist lifestyle just that much.

Thanks.

jg